README.md, before:

# Bulk Files OCR Text Finder

[![Node.js CI](https://github.com/rigwild/bulk-files-ocr-search/workflows/Node.js%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rigwild/bulk-files-ocr-search/actions)
[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bulk-files-ocr-search.svg?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bulk-files-ocr-search)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/bulk-files-ocr-search)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bulk-files-ocr-search)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/bulk-files-ocr-search?color=blue)](./LICENSE)

🔍 Find files that contain some text with [OCR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_character_recognition).

Supported file formats:

- Images: JPG, PNG, [WebP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebP)
- Documents: PDF

Unsupported file formats:

- Images: [AVIF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AVIF), [WebP 2 (`.wp2`)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebP#WebP_2), [JPEG XL (`.jxl`)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG_XL)
- Documents: Office (`.docx`, `.xlsx`, `.pptx`, ...)

[Tesseract OCR](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/blob/main/doc/tesseract.1.asc) is used internally.

This package uses [worker threads](https://nodejs.org/api/worker_threads.html) to make use of your CPU cores and be faster.

**Notes:**

- The OCR will only provide relevant results if your files are in a proper orientation (text is horizontal and not upside-down).
- Files will be matched if at least 1 of the words is found in the text contained in it.

## Install

No matter how you decide to use this package, you need to install [Tesseract OCR](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/blob/main/doc/tesseract.1.asc) anyway.

```sh
sudo apt install tesseract-ocr
```

See [Installing Tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract#installing-tesseract).

### OCR Language

If you want to use another language than English, download then install the required language from the [Tesseract OCR Languages Models repository](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata_fast).

```sh
# French language
wget https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata_fast/raw/main/fra.traineddata
sudo cp fra.traineddata /usr/share/tesseract-ocr/4.00/tessdata/
```

## Run from provided runner

```sh
git clone bulk-files-ocr-search
cd bulk-files-ocr-search
# npm install -D
pnpm install
pnpm build
```

Put all your files/directories in the [`data`](./data) directory. They can be in subfolders.

The progress will be printed to the console and saved in the `progress.json` file.

The list of files that match at least one of the provided words and their content will be saved to the `matches.txt` file.

```sh
node run.js
```

See [`run.js`](./run.js).

## Run Programatically

```sh
pnpm i bulk-files-ocr-search
```

```ts
import path from 'path'
import { scanDir, TesseractConfig } from 'bulk-files-ocr-search'

// The list of options
export type ScanOptions = {
  /**
   * List of words to search (if one is matched, the file is matched)
   *
   * If not provided, every files will get matched (useful to do mass OCR and save the result)
   */
  words: string[] | ['MATCH_ALL']

  /**
   * Should the logs be printed to the console? (default = false)
   */
  shouldConsoleLog?: boolean

  /**
   * If provided, the progress will be saved to a file
   *
   * When stopped, the process will start from where it stopped last time by looking there
   */
  progressFile?: string

  /**
   * If provided, every file path and their text content that were matched are logged to this file
   */
  outputLogFile?: string

  /**
   * Amount of worker threads to use (default = your total CPU cores - 2)
   *
   * Note: Using all your available cores may slow down the process!
   */
  workerPoolSize?: number

  /**
   * Tesseract OCR config, will default to english language
   *
   * @see https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/blob/main/doc/tesseract.1.asc
   */
  tesseractConfig?: TesseractConfig
}

const words = ['hello', 'match this', '<<<<<']

const scannedDir = path.resolve(__dirname, 'data')
const progressFile = path.resolve(__dirname, 'progress.json')
const outputLogFile = path.resolve(__dirname, 'matches.txt')
const tesseractConfig: TesseractConfig = { lang: 'eng' }

console.time('scan')

await scanDir(scannedDir, {
  words,
  shouldConsoleLog: true,
  progressFile,
  outputLogFile,
  tesseractConfig
})

console.log('Scan finished!')
console.timeEnd('scan')
```

The standalone OCR function is also exported.

```ts
import path from 'path'
import { ocr } from 'bulk-files-ocr-search'

const file = path.resolve(__dirname, '..', 'test', '_testFiles', 'sample.jpg')

// Tesseract configuration
const tesseractConfig: TesseractConfig = {}

// Should the string be normalized (lowercase, accents removed, whitespace removed)
const shouldCleanStr: boolean = true

const text = await ocr(file, tesseractConfig, shouldCleanStr)
console.log(text)
```

## License

[The MIT License](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add PDF to images conversion

README.md, after:

# Bulk Files OCR Text Finder

[![Node.js CI](https://github.com/rigwild/bulk-files-ocr-search/workflows/Node.js%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rigwild/bulk-files-ocr-search/actions)
[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bulk-files-ocr-search.svg?logo=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bulk-files-ocr-search)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dw/bulk-files-ocr-search)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bulk-files-ocr-search)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/bulk-files-ocr-search?color=blue)](./LICENSE)

🔍 Find files that contain some text with [OCR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_character_recognition).

Supported file formats:

- Images: JPEG, PNG, [WebP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebP)
- Documents: PDF

Unsupported file formats:

- Images: [AVIF](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AVIF), [WebP 2 (`.wp2`)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebP#WebP_2), [JPEG XL (`.jxl`)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG_XL)
- Documents: Office (`.docx`, `.xlsx`, `.pptx`, ...)

[Tesseract OCR](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract) is used internally ([Tesseract Documentation](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/blob/main/doc/tesseract.1.asc)). For PDF to JPEG conversion, [GraphicsMagick](http://www.graphicsmagick.org/) is used.

This package uses [worker threads](https://nodejs.org/api/worker_threads.html) to make use of your CPU cores and be faster.

**Notes:**

- The OCR will only provide relevant results if your files are in a proper orientation (text is horizontal and not upside-down).
- Files will be matched if at least 1 of the words is found in the text contained in it.

## Install

No matter how you decide to use this package, you need to install Tesseract OCR anyway. If you have some PDF files, they need to be converted with additional packages

```sh
# OCR Package
sudo apt install tesseract-ocr

# PDF to JPEG conversion utilities (for Windows/MacOS, see https://github.com/yakovmeister/pdf2image/blob/HEAD/docs/gm-installation.md)
$ sudo apt install ghostscript graphicsmagick
```

For non-linux user, check:

- [Installing Tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract#installing-tesseract)
- [GraphicsMagick Installation](https://github.com/yakovmeister/pdf2image/blob/HEAD/docs/gm-installation.md)

### OCR Language

If you want to use another language than English, download then install the required language from the [Tesseract OCR Languages Models repository](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata_fast).

```sh
# French language
wget https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tessdata_fast/raw/main/fra.traineddata
sudo cp fra.traineddata /usr/share/tesseract-ocr/4.00/tessdata/
```

## Run from provided runner

```sh
git clone bulk-files-ocr-search
cd bulk-files-ocr-search
pnpm install # or npm install -D
pnpm build
```

Put all your files/directories in the [`data`](./data) directory. They can be in subfolders.

The progress will be printed to the console and saved in the `progress.json` file.

The list of files that match at least one of the provided words and their content will be saved to the `matches.txt` file.

```sh
node run.js
```

See [`run.js`](./run.js).

## Run Programatically

```sh
pnpm i bulk-files-ocr-search
```

```ts
import path from 'path'
import { scanDir, TesseractConfig } from 'bulk-files-ocr-search'

// The list of options
export type ScanOptions = {
  /**
   * List of words to search (if one is matched, the file is matched)
   *
   * If not provided, every files will get matched (useful to do mass OCR and save the result)
   */
  words: string[] | ['MATCH_ALL']

  /**
   * Should the logs be printed to the console? (default = false)
   */
  shouldConsoleLog?: boolean

  /**
   * If provided, the progress will be saved to a file
   *
   * When stopped, the process will start from where it stopped last time by looking there
   */
  progressFile?: string

  /**
   * If provided, every file path and their text content that were matched are logged to this file
   */
  outputLogFile?: string

  /**
   * Amount of worker threads to use (default = your total CPU cores - 2)
   *
   * Note: Using all your available cores may slow down the process!
   */
  workerPoolSize?: number

  /**
   * Tesseract OCR config, will default to english language
   *
   * @see https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/blob/main/doc/tesseract.1.asc
   */
  tesseractConfig?: TesseractConfig
}

const words = ['hello', 'match this', '<<<<<']

const scannedDir = path.resolve(__dirname, 'data')
const progressFile = path.resolve(__dirname, 'progress.json')
const outputLogFile = path.resolve(__dirname, 'matches.txt')
const tesseractConfig: TesseractConfig = { lang: 'eng' }

console.time('scan')

await scanDir(scannedDir, {
  words,
  shouldConsoleLog: true,
  progressFile,
  outputLogFile,
  tesseractConfig
})

console.log('Scan finished!')
console.timeEnd('scan')
```

The standalone OCR and PDF to images functions are also exported.

```ts
import path from 'path'
import { ocr } from 'bulk-files-ocr-search'

const file = path.resolve(__dirname, '..', 'test', '_testFiles', 'sample.jpg')

// Tesseract configuration
const tesseractConfig: TesseractConfig = {}

// Should the string be normalized (lowercase, accents removed, whitespace removed)
const shouldCleanStr: boolean | undefined = true

// OCR
const text = await ocr(file, tesseractConfig, shouldCleanStr)
console.log(text)

// ---

const filePdf = path.resolve(__dirname, '..', 'test', '_testFiles', 'sample.pdf')

// Extracted pages output format
const format: string | undefined = 'jpg'

// PDF to images
const res = await pdfToImages(filePdf, format)
console.log(res) // Files are generated on the file system, 1 file per page
```

## License

[The MIT License](./LICENSE)
